Article summary:

####– Wnuk et al. “What Happened to Our Features? Visualization and Understanding of Scope Change Dynamics in a Large-Scale Industrial Setting”

Based on three large-scale industrial projects, this paper presents Feature Survival Charts (FSC) for visualization and understanding of scope change dynamics. The authors and practitioners support the FSC for repairing by using graphs. We can find features and analyze the scope changes according to the graphs of this FSC technique. 

For the case company, they use stage-gate model. They defined four milestones (MS1, MS2, MS3, and MS4) for the project requirements management and design stages before the implementations. In MS1 stage, the market value and effort estimates of features could be described. In MS2 stage, the features could be specified, reviewed and approved in detail. In MS3 stage, the effort estimates could be refined; the scope could be updated and baselined. Besides, the design team will begin to design. In MS4 stage, the requirements management and design should be done. Also, the final scope should be decided and agreed. The projects were analyzed from the length, the number of features, and the possibility to visualize and analyze significant scope changes. Based on the FSC for three projects, they got characteristics of each project.

To know about the scope changes, measurement is important. The author defined five measurements about time related measurement and feature related measurement. For the three projects, the author has theoretical analysis measurements and scoping. 

For the paper: The FSC is a visible and simple technique for understanding and implementing. Also, the measurements for the visualization technique could support the scoping decision. It is good for improvement of future work, because organization use post mortem feedback for ongoing scoping activities, then we can improve the activities according to past scoping activities. Besides, the case company the author chose can be able to indicate the method. It can totally perform the scalability and understandability of the method.

Against the paper: Although the case company is large scale projects and the method can be applied to it, the result cannot represent all types of cases. We still need to more case and analyze different condition. In addition, the findings and FSC concept was proposed by some practitioners, it may not enough for certification.

####– Wnuk & Gorschek “Obsolete Software Requirements”

	 This paper shows an empirical investigation with 219 respondents of obsolete software requirements, because we need to changes the customer requirements frequently and build up the fierce competition. So the obsolete software requirements research in this paper is necessary. Based on the research questions and the result, the paper showed some conclusion of the empirical study, I’ll briefly describe as follow:
1.	As the description of respondents, the obsolete software requirements would not require for the release in current or future. 
2.	The phenomenon of OSRs were considered as in different level according to different respondents. 
3.	The requirements from experts were more likely to become obsolete than the requirements from customers and developers.
4.	It is difficult for the customers to identify and manage the obsolete requirements. And most of obsolete requirements are manual identified.
5.	Many respondents want to use OSRs to reduce repeated work as far as possible.
6.	Not many respondents use tools and method to identify OSRs, they were used to identify OSRs based on manual process.
7.	The respondents could forget some active OSRs in the research.
8.	There could be some potential impact of OSRs because of the project size. OSRs often impact more in large-scale and very large-scale project.
9.	According to the respondents, the OSRs could be handled and managed quickly in requirements analysis and requirements validation phases.
10.	OSRs may not be affected only by latency. There might be some other problems.

For the paper: With the development of software requirements management, many ongoing and improved requirements were investigated. There is few research investigate the obsolete software requirements. Therefore, the investigation about the obsolete software requirements in this paper could make a great contribution for future software development process. Also, the result of the investigation is from 219 respondents in 45 countries, so it could fully indicate OSRs methods are an important challenge for companies, especially large-scale companies. 

Against the paper: The empirical study for OSRs from respondents is a manual process, during the research, there might have some relative errors from human beings we cannot avoid. Therefore, we still need more researches in the obsolete software requirements area. Also, the author should have risk management and error analysis.

##Reference

[1] Wnuk K, Regnell B, Karlsson L. Visualization of feature survival in platform-based embedded systems development for improved understanding of scope dynamics[C]//Requirements Engineering Visualization, 2008. REV'08. IEEE, 2008: 41-50.
